
1.  load the seqinr library by typing the following command:


```R
library(seqinr)
```

2. Get the sequence of interest from the database(Entrez gene, PDB, and so on) or file using read.fasta. In our case ,we will fetch two RNA polymerase(beta subunits) sequences from GenBank (note that the sequences belong to two different species), Mycobacterium tuberculosis( Actinobacterium)and Escherichia coli (Proteobacteium) as follows:


```R
choosebank("genbank")
```

    Warning message in socketConnection(host = host, port = port, server = server, blocking = blocking, :
    "pbil.univ-lyon1.fr:5558 cannot be opened"


    Error in choosebank("genbank"): I wasn't able to open the socket connection:
       o Check that your are connected to the internet.
       o Check that port 5558 is not closed by a firewall.
       o Try to increase timeout value (current is 5 seconds).
    
    Traceback:
    

    1. choosebank("genbank")

    2. stop(errmess)



```R
query(listname="actino", query="SP=Mycobacterium tuberculosis AND K= rpoB") # Gets the M.tuberculi sequences
```

3. Take a look at the summary of the sequences, such as the names and length, with the help of the following commands:


```R
actino$seq  #649 Sequences as on April 17th 2014
```


```R
proteo$req #171 Sequences as on April 17th 2014
```

4. From these sequence, choose one sequence from each speicies(M.tuberculosis and E.coli) that will be compared. In our case, we go with JX303316 in the former and AE005174.RPOB in the latter species,( the sequence index numbers 644 and 1, respectively, in the corresponding qwa objects) as follows:


```R
myActino <- getSequence(actio$req[[644]])
myProteo <- getSequence(proteo$req[[1]])
```

5.To compute the number of each base in the sequence, use the generic table function as follows:


```R
table(myActino)
```


```R
table(myProteo)
```

6. To get the fraction for each base, do it in on a line by dividing the outcome of the table function by the length of the sequence(multiply it with 100 to get the result in a percentage) as shown in the following command:


```R
table(myProteo)/length(myProteo)
```

7. If you decide to manually copy the sequence from the web page of the database, it will be considered a character object, it must be converted into a vector of characters as follows:


```R
myseq <- "AAAATGCAGTAACCCATGCCAAAATGCAGTAA"
myseq <- strsplit(myseq,"")
myseq <- unlist(myseq)
```

8. To compute the individual fraquencies of the nucleotides, use the following table function in the same way as used earlier:


```R
table(myseq)
```

9. Use similar commands for the protein sequence as follows:


```R
myseq <- "MTMDKSELVQKAKLAEQAERYDDMAAAMKAVTEQGHELSNEERNLLSVAYKNVVGARRSSWR
VISSIEQKTERNEKKQQMGKEYREKIEAELQDICNDVLELLDKYLIPNATQPESKVFYLKMK
GDYFRYLSEVASGDNKQTTVSNQQAYQEAFEISKKEMQPTHPIRLGLALNFSVFYYEILNS
PEKACSLAKTAFDEAIAELDTLNEESYKDSTLIMQLLRDNLTWTSENQGDEGENLYFQ"
```


```R
myseq <- strsplit(myseq, "")
```


```R
myseq <- unlist(myseq)
```


```R
table(myseq)
```

10. Moving on the interesting aspects of the GC content of the sequences, simply use the GC command from the seqinr package for the two sequences that were retrieved as follows:


```R
GC(myActino)
```


```R
GC(myProteo)
```

11. Create a simple bar plot while comparing for different sequences in the GC content
with a one-line command to visualize the results, as shown in the following command


```R
barplot(c(Actinobacteria= GC(myActino), Proteobacteria=GC(myProteo)), main="GC content in different bacteria")=GC(myProteo), main="GC content in different bacteria")
```

12. To know the frequency of every possible pair of nucleotides in the sequence, use
the count function, as shown in the following example, for every character pair
(you can also do this for triples and so on by choosing the right value for the
wordsize argument):


```R
seqinr::count(myActino, wordsize=2)
```
